Class Name	Description 	Hit Dice	Favored Stats 	Natural Proficiencies
Barbarian 	A fierce warrior of a primitive background who can enter a battle rage 	12 	Strength & Constitution 	Light and medium armor, shields, simple and martial weapons.	Strength, Constitution
Bard 	An inspiring magician whose power echoes the music of creation 	8 	Dexterity & Charisma 	Light armor, simple weapons, hand crossbows, longswords, rapiers, shortswords.	Dexterity, Charisma
Cleric 	A priestly champion who wields divine magic in service of a higher power 	8 	Wisdom & Charisma 	Light and medium armor, shields, simple weapons.	Wisdom, Charisma
Druid 	A priest of the Old Faith, wielding the powers of nature — moonlight and plant growth, fire and lightning — and adopting animal forms 	8 	Intelligence & Wisdom 	Light and medium armor (non-metal), shields (non-metal), clubs, daggers, darts, javelins, maces, quarterstaffs, scimitars, sickles, slings, spears.	Intelligence, Wisdom
Fighter 	A master of martial combat, skilled with a variety of weapons and armors 	10 	Strength & Constitution 	All armor, shields, simple and martial weapons.	Strength, Constitution
Monk 	A master of martial arts, skilled with fighting hands and martial monk weapons 	8 	Strength & Dexterity 	Simple weapons, shortswords.	Strength, Dexterity
Paladin 	A holy warrior bound to a sacred oath 	10 	Wisdom & Charisma 	All armor, shields, simple and martial weapons.	Wisdom, Charisma
Ranger 	A master of ranged combat, one with nature 	10 	Dexterity & Strength 	Light and medium armor, shield, simple weapons, martial weapons.	Strength, Dexterity
Rogue 	A scoundrel and agile warrior who uses stealth and trickery to overcome obstacles and enemies 	8 	Dexterity, Intelligence 	Light armor, simple weapons, hand crossbows, longswords, rapiers, shortswords.	Dexterity, Intelligence
Sorcerer 	A spellcaster who draws on inherent magic from a gift or bloodline 	6 	Constitution & Charisma 	Daggers, darts, slings, quarterstaffs, light crossbows.	Constitution, Charisma
Warlock 	A wielder of magic that is derived from a bargain with an extraplanar entity 	8 	Wisdom & Charisma 	Light armor, simple weapons.	Wisdom, Charisma
Wizard 	A scholarly magic-user capable of manipulating the structures of reality 	6 	Intelligence & Wisdom 	Daggers, darts, slings, quarterstaffs, light crossbows.	Intelligence, Wisdom